---
title: "Enhancing intelligent IoT services development by integrated multi-token code completion"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-10-24-paper
excerpt: 'This paper proposes a novel approach to the code completion task by generating code skeletons and leveraging attention mechanisms.'
date: 2023-10-24
venue: 'Computer Communications'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper-20231024.pdf'
citation: 'Xia, Y., Liang, T., Min, W., Kuang, L., & Gao, H. (2023). Enhancing intelligent IoT services development by integrated multi-token code completion. <i>Computer Communications, 212</i>, 313-323.'
---

The Internet of Things (IoT) is a revolutionary network of interconnected devices embedded with sensors and software that enables seamless communication, data sharing, and intelligent decision-making in the form of IoT services. To facilitate the efficient development of IoT services, code completion technique provides a promising solution by providing suggestions for missing code snippets. The development trend of IoT services is to support more mobile device terminals. Mobile devices are portable and easy to use, allowing IoT device operation and management anytime and anywhere. However, the current multi-token completion methods struggle to guarantee code generation quality under the constraints of low resources and low latency, making it difficult to fully support IoT service development. We propose a multi-token code completion framework, S2RCC, which completes code from skeleton to refinement with dual encoder and dual decoder. The framework consists of two phases: first, the code skeleton, which is the simplification of code containing structure-sensitive tokens, is predicted based on the semantics of the code context; second, the broken context is repaired with the predicted skeleton, and then parsed into the code structure so that the specific tokens can be generated combining the semantics and structure of context. Furthermore, we then provide an implementation of the framework, representing the repaired code as an improved Heterogeneous code graph and fusing the semantics and structure of code context by the three-layer stacked attention. We conducted experiments on multi-token completion datasets, showing that our model has achieved the state-of-the-art with the smallest possible scale and the fastest generation speed.