---
title: "ChatDL: An LLM-Based Defect Localization Approach for Software in IIoT Flexible Manufacturing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-01-20-paper
excerpt: 'This paper introduces a LLM-based method to detect software defects.'
date: 2025-01-20
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
paperurl: 
citation: 'H. Yang, Y. Zhou, T. Liang and L. Kuang, "ChatDL: An LLM-Based Defect Localization Approach for Software in IIoT Flexible Manufacturing," in IEEE Internet of Things Journal, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2025.3531512.'
---

With the rapid advancement of flexible manufacturing in the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), there has been a significant increase in the number of IIoT devices and application software aimed at meeting various needs. The software defects may lead to delays or crashes in flexible manufacturing system, thereby affecting the production schedule. Automated software defect localization based on code changes can significantly reduce development and maintenance time costs, thereby maintaining the competitive edge of flexible manufacturing in the IIoT. Current efforts in software defect localization are primarily based on deep learning models or information retrieval models. This paper investigates the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in software defect localization and optimizes localization accuracy by combining it with an information retrieval model. Our empirical study reveals that GPT, given a software defect description, is unable to determine whether specific code changes are relevant. The model is unable to provide accurate answers, which aligns with the generative nature of LLMs where responses are generated according to probability distributions. However, the combined framework of LLMs and information retrieval models proposed in this paper outperforms the current state-of-the-art models on public datasets. We conclude that LLMs can enhance localization performance when used as side information in conjunction with existing information retrieval models. The effectiveness of the framework has been validated through experiments conducted on publicly available datasets and in practical applications within IIoT projects. This offers valuable insights into the application and development of LLMs for defect localization in the software development and maintenance processes in the IIoT flexible manufacturing.